Beit Shearim, the most ancient extensive Jewish cemetery in the world.
The wealth of artistic adornments contained in this necropolis is unparalleled anywhere.
This place is nothing but unconventional and holds one of the world's greatest mysteries.
What does a perfectly leveled and rectangular, a nine ton slab of glass doing in the middle of a burial cave?
And also, why did this small Jewish town of Beith Shearim need gates, walls, guard tower?
What were they protecting?
Stay tuned to find the answers to these questions.
Beit Shearim was accidentally discovered by Alexander Zaid, a Russian immigrant who made Aliya in 1904.
He was a famous guard who had a hobby- to dig.
So in one of the outposts, he came here and started digging.
What he found is one of the greatest archeological discoveries in Israel.
An ancient Jewish necropolis.
Lets go and take a look.
Archeologists found here over 30 burial cave systems.
And in addition to that some artifacts and inscriptions in three languages: Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek.
One of those inscriptions said "Bisara", its
Greek for Beit Shearim, the house of gates.
This is the most ancient extensive Jewish cemetery in the world.
There is nothing like it in its artistic adornments.
After the destruction of the second temple in 70 AD,
The Sanhedrin, the Jewish supreme  council moved from Jerusalem to here.
And with them, the head of the Sanhedrin, Yehuda Ha Nasi.
And Rabbi Yehuda Ha Nasi is believed to be buried right here in this cave system.
We have inscription of the names of his family that are buried here.
And other heads of Sanhedrin.
Its incredible.
So why are there so many burial caves here?
And why are they so fancy?
Well, one theory is, that after the Romans had prohibited the Jews to be buried on Mt. of Olives in Jerusalem,
Beit Shearim became the alternative.
And after the head of the Sanhedrin was buried here,
Practically, every other Jew wanted to be buried by his side.
I mean after all, who wouldn't want to be
buried next to the Prince of Judah.
But maybe there is another reason.
For the longest time, historians were baffled by the name of this place.
Its called Beit Shearim, the house of gates, but where are the gates?
Where are the wall that are connected to those gates?
And why such a small town would need gates and walls?
Last year archeologists had finally excavated a Roman era gate, and a guard tower right next to it.
This confirmed the name of the town, bit also posed a riddle, why did this town need them?
What were they protecting?
The answer to that question might just lie
in one of the worlds greatest mysteries.
A nine tone ancient slab of glass in the middle
of a necropolis.
So you're looking at this and you're saying
"wait a second, it's a rock"!
It looks like a rock and it feels like a rock.
Well, somebody in the 1950s suggested that this is glass, and they laughed at them.
So in 1963, they were making a research about ancient glass.
So they drilled a sample out of the middle of the rock.
It took them hours to drill through.
And they took it to the lab.
And then analysis from the lab showed that the chemical composition of this material is glass.
In fact, it is nine ton of it.
Nine ton of glass.
That equals to 60,000 perfume bottles.
To produce such a slab of glass, they would need: 12 tons of raw material.
20 tons of fuel, an 1100 degrees centigrade furnace that burns 5-10 days continually.
To put it in to perspective, imagine, 12 full
truck loads of sand, 250 wood logs,
That if you put on top of each other, would come out almost twice higher than the empire state building.
And a furnace that can melt most metals.
So the question is: Why is this glass not transparent?
And the answer lies in the chemical composition.
This glass is defected, it has twice more
lime than its supposed to have - %16 instead of %8.
So what is this glass doing here?
Well one theory is that this cave was turned in to a glass factory, or at least they tried.
And in the process of making it, as this place was hot and burning for 5 days,
Lime from the limestone from the ceiling dripped down into the raw material, and added more lime,
And added more lime than it needs to be, making it defected.
So, they left this factory.
They said its a goner.
That theory is a bit bizarre because why would they start a glass factory in the middle of the cave, a burial cave?
That's a difficult one to answer.
But there's another theory.
One that is very very interesting.
Until recently, scholars believed that glass
was first invented in Egypt 3000 years ago,
But recent discoveries have led the researches to push the date back by 800 years, into the land of Ur.
That's right!
Abraham's home town.
The technology followed him into Canaan, then to Egypt, then back to Canaan,
And from there it spread across the world with the help of the Roman Empire.
And here are the interesting facts, the remains of the largest glass factory of the ancient world is found no where else but Israel.
On the coast of Hedera.
A whooping 17 ancient furnaces.
And another fact: the oldest blown glass ever found was also discovered in Israel,
In the Jewish quarter of Jerusalem.
Is it possible that the secret recipe of glass making was passed from father to son among the Hebrews?
So what about this giant slab of glass?
In 1 Kings 6:4 the Bible describes how Solomon constructed the temple windows:
“He made narrow windows high up in the temple walls.”
Looking at this verse in Hebrew shed more light on the mystery!
.“וַיַּ֣עַשׂ לַבָּ֔יִת חַלֹּונֵ֖י שְׁקֻפִ֥ים אֲטֻמִֽים”
The word Shkufim (שְׁקֻפִ֥ים) means Transparent and the word Atumim (אֲטֻמִֽים) means Sealed.
Transparent and Sealed windows.
Could this be referring to glass?
Is it possible that King Herod rebuilt the
2nd temple with actual giant glass windows inside of it?
Could it be that after the destruction of
the temple in 70 AD,
One window survived but got contaminated in fire by the limestone temple walls?
And what if the Jews were able to move this window to Beit Shearim?
This crazy theory would explain why such a small town needed walls to protect it.
And why every other Jew wanted to be buried by the last remaining holy article from the temple.
So it might just be that I'm touching a temple artifact.
Did you like this video?
Subscribe bellow and share it with your friends.
Its that red button right there, the red Subscribe.
Red like your shirt.
Like Fifi's wrath!